Good morning and welcome to session 119,
Creating Great Automator Actions:
The Basics.
I'm Todd Fernandez,
the Automator Engineering Manager,
and I'm really excited to get
things kicked off this morning.
I'm going to give you
a brief introduction,
get you excited about
creating Automator actions,
and then turn things over to
members of my team who will teach
you everything you need to know
about creating great actions.
Making the right decisions about what
kind of actions to create and then
how to create them in the best way,
following guidelines we recommend so
that they behave consistently with other
actions that exist on the platform,
making them much easier for
users to adopt them and integrate
them into their workflows.
So at the outset,
I want to emphasize that this session
is focusing on Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger,
what you can do today to create
great Automator actions and
ship them for your customers.
At 2:00 this afternoon in this very room,
we'll have another session on advanced
topics that will focus more on the new
features we're introducing in Leopard,
some of which you may have
seen me demo on Monday.
So that you can begin planning ahead
for adopting those features for your
actions that will ship with Leopard.
So to get started, I wanted to try to
review where we've been,
what's happened since the last
time we were here together,
a little over a year ago.
We had just shipped the initial
version of Automator in Tiger,
and we had a number of goals that we were
trying to achieve by creating Automator.
First of all, we wanted to make it easier
for users of all kinds,
whether they're developers
or just ordinary users,
or maybe even your grandma,
to use automation to make
their lives simpler and easier.
More specifically for you,
we wanted to make it easier for
you to create new automation tools
in whichever language you prefer.
So if you want to use AppleScript,
use AppleScript.
If you want to use Objective-C,
use Objective-C.
And if you want to use Perl or
Python or any other language you like,
you can do that and
create great new tools.
And finally,
we want to be able to tie all this
together and make all these new tools
work seamlessly and efficiently together.
So again, reinforcing our first goal,
making it easier for users of
all kinds to use automation.
So how did we do?
Well, we had one big vote of confidence
from the editors of Macworld,
who...
awarded us an Editor's Choice Award for
Best Productivity Software last year.
So that was very nice of them,
and I can reinforce that with some of
the words from one of those editors.
I think this makes it clear that they
believe that we achieved our first goal.
But enough tooting our own horn.
What about our goal for you?
Here I really want to thank you
because your response has been
overwhelming and we're thrilled to
have over more than 2,000 actions that
have been released in the 16 months
since we released Automator in Tiger.
So thank you very much.
We really appreciate the support.
In fact,
this is just a sampling of some of
the many applications that now ship
with built-in Automator actions,
and we certainly hope to see some of your
applications join this exclusive club.
In fact, Apple itself is beginning to do
this with some of the applications
it ships outside of Mac OS X,
such as Aperture and
Soundtrack Pro and Keynote,
and we certainly encourage
you to continue to do this.
Beyond specific applications,
we've also seen a great number
of websites that have sprung
up to create a great community
and ecosystem around Automator,
making it easy for users to find
new actions and information about
how to use them and incorporate
them into their workflows.
As a great example of this,
some of you may have gone to the
Apple Design Awards last night
where we presented the inaugural
Best Mac OS X Workflow Award.
And we were very pleased
to see Ben Waldie,
whose website was appearing there,
was given the award for a great
set of over 50 actions that target
some of the biggest apps on the
platform and work very well together.
Here's a screenshot of the winning
workflow that takes photos from iPhoto
and real estate listing information
from a FileMaker Pro database and uses
InDesign to lay that information out in
a really beautiful real estate catalog
that can be printed or posted on the web.
So again, congratulations to Ben.
So, if I haven't convinced you already,
why should you join this party
and create actions for your
application or technology?
Well, for one thing,
if you're an application developer,
you can use the same tools
that you're familiar with for
building your application:
Xcode and Interface Builder.
And of course,
you can reuse a lot of the same code
that you use within your application.
One of the things we've seen with
Automator is many of you create very
powerful applications which can be
intimidated for less sophisticated users.
For example,
like the insides of this MacBook Pro.
However, what you can do by exposing that
powerful technology in a well-designed,
well-crafted set of simpler,
easier-to-understand Automator actions
is that you can make that technology
more approachable for ordinary users,
thereby widening your
audience for your software.
I'm sure none of you are interested in
selling more copies of your software.
And finally,
once you attract those new customers,
by encouraging them to
integrate your application into
their automation solutions,
you're helping them to make your
application essential to them,
because they will not want to
go back to doing things by hand
once they've automated a process.
And finally,
and of course most importantly,
you'd be associating
with the coolest icon.
and Otto does his pirouette there.
So without any further ado,
now that I hope you're really excited
about creating actions and learning
everything you need to know to do that,
I'm going to turn things over to
a great addition to the Automator
team since the last time we met,
who is responsible for some
of the great new features
that are available on Leopard,
such as workflow variables.
So please join me in
welcoming Emilie Kim.
I'm Emilie.
Let's create great Automator actions.
But first, let's all make sure
we're on the same page.
What is Automator?
Automator is an application which allows
you to create automated workflows.
A workflow is a process
of attaining a goal.
An example of such a workflow
might be something like if
I had my camera over here,
and I wanted to take the photos
from my camera and send them all
the way over here to my grandma.
Now, that's a workflow,
and Automator allows me to automate this.
Actions make up the pieces of a workflow,
and this is what you use to build it.
So in our example workflow,
with sending the photos from
my camera to my grandmother,
our actions might be something like
getting the photos off of my camera
and putting them onto my computer.
After that,
maybe I want to rename these photos,
and then I'll want to scale them
before I send them to my grandma,
because she's still on dial-up,
so she needs smaller
versions of these pictures.
Automator currently ships with a very
large set of actions provided for you by
Apple to help you create your workflows,
but if these were all the
actions you ever needed,
we wouldn't be here.
So we've also provided you
with a set of tools you can
use to create your own actions.
And that's what we're
going to learn today.
It's extremely important we know
how to create great actions because,
as you can see,
actions make up the pieces of a workflow.
Without great actions,
we can't have great workflows.
So what would happen if there
was no scale images action?
Grandma can't receive my photos because
they're too big and she becomes sad.
So, as you can see,
it's extremely important that we
have all the actions that we can use
so we can create great workflows.
So, what are we going to talk about
today so we can accomplish this goal?
We're going to first
learn how actions work.
What are the parts of an action and
how do they interact with each other?
We're going to learn how to create
the action project in Xcode,
and then we're going to learn
how to implement the action,
build the user interface,
as well as set the action properties
so the user has the best possible
experience for using actions.
After that, we're going to build, test,
debug, install, and use the action,
which is much easier done than said.
So, how about actions?
There are three actions you can create.
The first type of action
is an AppleScript action.
This is written in AppleScript.
The second type of action you
can create is a Cocoa action,
and this is written in Objective-C.
The third type of action
is a shell script action,
which can be done in the
scripting language of your choice.
For example, Bash, Python, Ruby,
or even Perl, which you'll see later
on in this session.
Actions can be standalone,
meaning they rely on the technology of
the code to perform their functionality,
or they can target an application.
If the action targets an application,
the application must either
have a scripting interface,
provide APIs, or be a command line tool
for the action to be able to
interact with it from Automator.
So, in case none of you
have seen this before,
this is what Automator looks like.
Is there anyone,
this is your first time seeing Automator?
Okay, well that's alright.
To make sure we're all on the same page,
let's take a closer look at Automator.
So here we have the library view,
which is where the user could browse
by application for your action.
In the middle, we have the action column,
where the user can find the
action they're looking for,
and then they can add the
action to the workflow view,
and this is their workflow.
So now let's take a
closer look at the action.
The Action is made up
of three distinct parts.
The first part is the code.
That's the thing we all know how to do.
That's the easy part.
As you saw earlier,
the code can be done in three ways.
It can be in AppleScript, Objective-C,
or the scripting language of your choice.
On top of that,
we have the user interface.
This is what the user deals
with when they're using your
action within Automator.
And then, sandwiching that,
we have the action properties,
which you can set to ensure the user
has the best possible experience.
and then when you put all that together,
you have your action.
But who really cares
about all the other stuff?
Let's get to the code.
That's the exciting part.
So I'm going to invite Todd back
up on stage for a quick demo.
Thank you, Emilie.
So the first thing I'd like to show
you is just how easy it is to create
a simple action using AppleScript.
It's so easy even a manager can do it.
Although, I guess I haven't done it yet,
so that remains to be seen.
So the hard part is really thinking about
what you want to do with your action.
So in this particular case,
I want to create a simple action
that takes text as input and
uses Mac OS X's text-to-speech
technology to read it back to me.
So within Xcode, I'm going to use the new
Project Assistant to create my project.
And as we can see, if I zoom in here,
You can see that the action projects are
right there at the top where they belong.
And they're in fact
three different types,
as Emilie has already explained:
AppleScript, Cocoa,
Definition Bundle you can
hear about at 2 o'clock,
and ShellScript Automator Actions.
But I want to create
an AppleScript action,
and let's zoom back out
so we don't get whiplash.
So we click Next to create our project,
and my lovely assistant has
typed in my name already,
So we're going to create an
action called speak text.
The assistant creates the
project from the template,
and this is what I get.
So let me arrange things here
so we can work and give you
a little tour of the project.
Most importantly,
again as Emilie pointed out,
we're going to start off with
just dealing with the code.
In this case, main.AppleScript.
And before I get to the details,
let me show you a few other
things in the resources.
One important point here to mention
is that an AppleScript action is
really an AppleScript Studio action.
And, okay,
I guess this is time for a commercial.
I will be giving a hands-on session
on AppleScript Studio tomorrow
afternoon at 3:30,
so perhaps I'll see you there as well.
The important point being
here that I'm showing the
AppleScript Studio dictionary,
which can be very useful as
you're working with your actions.
And the main.nib is where your
actions user interface is defined,
but we're not going to add any user
interface in this particular demo.
So let's return to our script.
As we see, we have a single method here,
a handler in AppleScript,
the onRun handler.
This is the code that is called
by Automator when it runs
your action within a workflow.
And it passes you two
pieces of information.
It passes the input,
which is the output of the
previous action in the workflow,
and the parameters,
which are a block of information based
on the user interface choices the user
has made in your action's user interface,
so that you can make the appropriate
choices within your code.
But again, we have no user interface
in this first demo,
so we're just going
to focus on the input.
And a good habit to get into is to
return the input that you're given
if you're not actually changing it.
And of course,
since we're just reading this text back,
we're not going to change it,
so we're going to just
return it as we got it.
And it turns out,
given that this is AppleScript,
a very high-level,
powerful scripting language
that gives you all the power
of the OS in a few keystrokes,
all I need to do to read the
text is type nine characters,
say input.
That's it.
Let's see how far we've gotten here.
So I'm going to hit Build and Go,
which compiles my action
and launches Automator,
passing the newly built action
to it on the command line.
This makes the development
process very similar to
building a regular application.
You don't need to install the
action every time you make a change.
And we see this funny-looking
primary application here and
speak text with the wrong icon.
Hmm.
Perhaps we still have
some more work to do.
But, well, we'll be brave.
Let's pull out a pre-canned workflow
that's got some text in it already
and add my new action to it.
And as we see,
we haven't configured the UI,
so let's hide that.
Let's see how well this works.
Automator is a fantastic
boon to Mac users,
not just the geeks.
It's a gift to ordinary users.
I never get tired of hearing that.
We'll stop tooting our own horn soon,
believe me,
but that's from Andy Anotko's review
after he released Automator and Tiger.
So that's great, we're done.
Fantastic.
Now I know what you're
thinking to yourself.
Okay Todd, well if that's how easy it is,
why are we having a
whole session on this?
Well, let's do a little bit more testing,
which I'm sure you all do
with your applications.
What happens if we
don't give it any input?
Well, that's not so cool.
We should probably just fail silently.
And let's see, what happens if we pass
something in that's not text,
like a file name, or a file path instead?
Hmm, another error.
Well, you might think that's OK,
because we're not passing a text.
But Automator shows it as a match.
Let's see.
Well, we've also got the
shipping speak text here.
Does it work in that case?
Users S119 Documents Demo 1 Geek:
Gift.Text Clipping So that
works with the shipping version.
How does that,
why does my action not work?
Well, apparently I'm not done yet.
We've had at least one code problem.
We're not handling null input.
And this seems to be an
action properties problem,
because as you see the shipping
action has text defined as its input,
where my version of the
action has anything.
Hmm,
I guess it's not as easy as we thought.
So now that I've shown you
in quite graphic detail that
it's not quite that easy,
let me turn it back over to Emilie
to teach you everything else you need
to know about creating great actions.
[Transcript missing]
So, as you can see,
Todd's action has a few
problems here and there,
but being a manager,
Todd wants us to add new features
before we actually fix the bugs.
So, we're going to take a look at adding
a user interface to our action first,
before we go and fix the
problems he introduced.
So, we're going to talk about the
user interface of an action,
and as you saw in Todd's demo,
this is also known as the main.nib file.
So, we're going to open up this file
in Interface Builder and add
our user interface elements.
So, here is what our Action View looks
like in Interface Builder.
We've added a text label called
"voice" to label our pop-up button,
which contains a list of
voices that we have on the
system that we can speak with.
We then go to the Bindings Inspector of
Interface Builder and we have bound,
in this case,
the selected object for the pop-up
button to the key chosen voice.
This allows the pop-up button in our
user interface to talk with our code.
If you want a more
dynamic user interface,
you can use AppleScript Studio Handlers
to populate your user interface
and Todd will explain more
about that in his next demo.
So we've added a pop-up button to this,
but what else can we add?
Actually, you can add any element you
have in Interface Builder to
your actions user interface,
including the AM Path pop-up button,
which is in the Automator palette,
which allows the user to select a path.
This is used very often in Automator
actions that ship with Automator,
so I would encourage you
to take a look at that.
So, let's go over some guidelines
when creating your user
interface for your action.
First and most importantly is to
maintain a consistent look and feel.
Many developers create actions
and we want the user to have
a good experience when using
Automator with all of these actions.
So it's essential that you
maintain a consistent look
and feel to encourage this.
Additionally,
minimizing vertical space is extremely
important because as you can see,
when users add actions to a workflow,
they stack on top of each other.
So it's very important that the user
has as much vertical space as possible.
You also want to give the user feedback.
For example, if your action adds text
to the end of a file name,
you might want to give the user an
example of what their file name will look
like after it goes through your action.
For examples of actions which
follow these guidelines,
you can look at the actions that
currently ship with Automator.
And if you want the complete guidelines,
you can read the Automator
Programming Guide.
So, we've talked about how to add
a user interface to our action,
and we've gotten the feature
Todd wants us to add.
So now we can go back and fix
some of the bugs that he had.
So to do this,
we're going to take a look at setting
the action properties of an action.
There are four properties
you can set for an action.
You have the parameters,
the input and output of an action,
the required resources,
and the warnings you
can set for your action.
You can set all this in the target
inspector in the action project.
So let's first take a
look at the parameters.
To set the parameters,
you connect basically the user
interface element to your code.
In this case, this is the pop-up button,
and it connects to
chosen voice in our code.
To set this,
you would go to the target inspector
and select the parameters section and
you can see here we have chosen voice as
type string and we have no default value
since we already populated the menu.
More generally though,
if you have user interface elements
you want to connect through parameters,
if you had a text field,
you would want to set its type to string,
and you can also set a default value,
which first shows up when
the user loads your action.
If you have an AMPath pop-up button,
which I mentioned earlier
in the Automator palette,
you would also set its type to string
and you could have it start out with,
say, pictures.
If you had a pop-up menu
index bound to your parameter,
you would bind it to the integer
and you could set it to 2,
for example.
Or if you had a checkbox,
its type would be Boolean.
So now that we've talked
about the parameters,
let's take a look at the input
and output types for an action.
This is especially important
because as you can see,
Todd's action didn't quite
work with files and folders.
So let's find out why.
Here you can see the input
and the output for an action.
But first let's focus on the input.
In the target inspector,
you can see that there are many
options you can use when specifying
the input for your action.
So let's take a closer look.
First you can see acceptable input
types that your action can take in.
These are UTI strings and
you can actually set multiple
input types for your action.
You can also just say whether your
action requires input or whether it's
optional and whether your input should
be a list of items or a single item.
An Automator will take care
of these conversions for you.
So that wasn't a very
exciting example of input,
speak text, so let's take a look at
a more exciting example:
New Mail Message.
As you can see,
New Mail Message has multiple input types
and it has the optional box checked.
So let's take a closer look at
what having multiple types entails.
New Mail Message can accept two types:
alias objects and text objects.
If you send in alias objects,
which are essentially files and folders,
into New Mail Message,
you see a connection here showing
files and folders connection.
This tells Automator to send in files
and folders to New Mail Message,
and then New Mail Message says,
"I'm going to set these as the
attachments to my message."
New Mail Message also
accepts text objects,
which are text, and if you send these
into New Mail Message,
the connection shows up as text,
and that gets set as the
body for the message.
So this is what having
multiple input types entails.
But it's extremely important to know that
your actions code is what takes care of
what to do with different input types.
So in New Mail Message's code,
it would say if the input
is files and folders,
set them as the attachments,
and if the input is text,
then set it as the body of the message.
So, now let's take a look
at the optional box.
But to fully understand
what this box does,
let's uncheck it first
and see what happens.
If you then add new mail
message to your workflow,
you see this red text at the top that
says "Files and Folders". This indicates
that there is a broken connection.
This is not a good experience because
you should be able to create just
a blank message without any input.
So, if we check the optional box,
we can see that now we have the
option to either use the results from
a previous action if there is one,
or we can just ignore the
results altogether and just
create a blank message.
So,
now that we've talked about the input,
let's take a look at the output.
This is very similar to the input.
In the target inspector
you can set its properties,
and it is also done by UTI types,
and you can have output as a
list of items or a single item.
So, we've talked a lot about
the input and output,
so what are some guidelines
you should follow?
You should make your input and
output types as specific as possible.
In Todd's case,
he started out with his input and
output types as AppleScript objects,
and if he's paying attention,
he'll know that he has to change
them to AppleScript text objects
for his action to work correctly.
Additionally, if your action doesn't
actually need input,
what you should do is leave the
types as general as possible and then
simply return the input as the output.
You can also specify
multiple input types,
as you saw with New Mail Message.
It's important to remember that it's
your code that deals with what to
do with these multiple input types.
You might be asking yourself,
"I'm supposed to make my input
types as specific as possible,
and I can specify multiple input types.
Does that mean if I wanted
SpeakText to accept text,
files and folders, and URLs,
would I have to specify both
the AppleScript versions and
the Cocoa versions and all
of that?" The answer is no.
You don't have to do this.
In fact, all you have to do is set your
input type to a text object.
To understand why this happens,
let's take a look at conversion actions.
Here we have files and folders
being passed into SpeakText as text,
and we see a connection here:
files and folders to text.
So, what's going on here?
In between these two actions,
there is a conversion action
which converts files and folders
to their textual representation,
which is then what
SpeakText uses to speak it.
So, this is why conversion actions allow
the files and folders to be passed
into an action which only accepts text,
and it will still work.
So,
conversion actions glue actions together.
They're added invisibly
and automatically,
so you actually don't even
have to worry about it,
and neither do your users.
There are many built-in conversion
actions which ship with Automator,
so that's why all the
actions we provide work,
but if you have your own custom data
types that you use in your actions,
you need to create your own conversion
actions so your data types can play well
with the other actions in Automator.
And to learn more about this,
I encourage you to come to the advanced
session this afternoon at 2 in this room.
So we've talked a lot
about the input and output.
Now let's make sure the user
has a good experience when,
for example,
if you have an application that needs
to be on the system for your action,
such as iPhoto.
So to do this,
you could set the required resources.
And if the user tries to add
your action and they don't
have iPhoto on their system,
they would be presented
with a sheet such as this,
telling them that the action
might not work correctly.
To set the required resources,
you again go into the target
inspector and you can set the
required resource by application
or by creator code or by file.
This is to make sure your user
has the best possible experience
in case they don't have that
application on their system.
To also make sure that the
user has the best possible
experience in using your action,
you want to set the
warnings for your action.
In case your action makes
changes to a user's input,
you'll want to let them know
with a sheet such as this,
saying that their images might be
changed if it goes through this action.
So, again to the target inspector
and let's look at these options.
There are three warning levels
you can set for your action.
The first one is Safe.
This is the default warning
level and an example of this
might be copy finder items.
This certainly doesn't
change the user's input,
so this is a safe warning level.
The second type of warning
level is reversible.
And this basically means that the user
can take back the changes that they made
after sending it through your action.
An example of this might be flip images.
If the user passes some
photos through flip images,
if they don't like the results,
they can just send them back
through flip images and they'd
be back to the way they were.
When the user tries to add
flip images to their workflow,
they would see a warning
sheet which looked like this,
encouraging them to copy their
files just in case before they
send it through flip images.
The third warning level is Irreversible.
An example of this might be crop images.
If you accidentally cropped
yourself out of your wedding photos,
it would be extremely difficult
to re-crop yourself back into them
just by sending it through again.
So, you want to make sure that
the user is aware of this,
and auto is badged with a large
warning icon indicating that
there are irreversible changes.
You should back up your data first.
You can also set the message in
the Action Property Inspector that
is displayed in the sheet,
and the Action Bundle ID which
you would recommend the user
add before they add your action.
You can also set the text
of the button which says,
"Yes, please add copy files before this
action so my data is preserved."
And you can also set the text for,
"No, I like to live dangerously.
Crop away." So, we've seen all these
Action Properties now,
and your action works great as an action.
But what about within
the context of Automator?
So,
let's take a look now at the Library view
and see what we can do to make sure the
user can find your action to use it.
So, you can see you can set the
action name and the icon name.
You can also set the application
that your action lives in,
so if the user is
browsing for your action,
they can find it.
The description for your action,
as well as the category and keywords for
your action if the user is searching.
So, for example,
keywords for a speak text action
might be something like "say",
"speech", "speak", and "text".
So, we've seen a lot about
setting the action properties,
but these are extremely
important because as you can see,
Todd's first demo had a lot of problems.
So, I'll invite Todd back up on stage and
see if he's learned anything since then.
Actually, can we still have slides,
please?
So I guess we know who's
bucking for a promotion.
So as Emilie explained,
I'm going to see if I can do a little
bit better with configuring all my
action properties now that she's
taught me what I need to know to do so.
And that new feature I just had to have,
I need to be able to control what
voice is used to read back my text.
So we're going to add a pop-up
button to our user interface.
And finally,
we're going to use AppleScript and
AppleScript Studio to implement the
behavior of our user interface and
the runtime behavior of the action.
So, please, to the demo machine.
Let's see if I can do a
little bit better this time.
So let's erase the evidence of my shame.
and start from this version.
So let me bring up the Target Inspector.
As we can see,
hopefully we can see that I've already
configured quite a few of these.
I've got my name set properly,
the application group where
the action will appear,
category and icon name.
My input is set to text object,
the way it should be apparently,
as is the output.
And here are my parameters.
Now,
I need to add a parameter to hold the
value that the user selects in the
pop-up button that chooses the voice.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I can add a new parameter
by clicking the plus button.
And let's call it "Chosen
Voice". And Emilie showed
it with no default value,
but in fact I have an
overwhelmingly favorite voice,
Zarvox.
I'm sure you share my opinion.
So I actually want everyone that
uses my action to have to switch
away from my favorite voice.
So I'm going to add a default value.
Excellent.
So we'll see when I finally build
and run my action whether or
not I've gotten all the action
properties configured correctly,
but I believe I have.
So let's move on to our user interface,
our main.nib.
And by double-clicking
on this in the project,
it will open it up in Interface Builder,
our other development tool that
we need to use to create actions,
at least actions with user interfaces.
So this is what you get when you create
a new project out of the template.
And I'm just going to co-opt
that text to add our voice label.
And let's see, what do we need?
We need a pop-up button.
One of the user interface guidelines
is that you should use small
controls in Automator actions.
So let's go ahead and use the inspector
over here on the right to set the
size of my pop-up button to small.
and use the Aqua guidelines
to line it up with my label.
And finally,
let's add in a progress indicator so
that the user gets some visual feedback
as we're populating our pop-up button.
And one important thing that
I occasionally forget is that
I don't want my progress indicator
to appear when it's not running,
so I want to uncheck this display when
stopped attribute in the inspector.
And let's clean up our pop-up menu.
We don't need these items.
And let's just have a default
item of loading as we're
populating our pop-up button.
Let's get this lined up.
Another design guideline is to
have a 10 pixel border on all
sides of our action controls.
And I'm getting those guides by holding
down the Option key with my left hand,
which you cannot see,
but it's really there.
All right, so now we've got our
user interface laid out.
Let's save our changes.
But there are a few more
things we need to do.
We mentioned AppleScript Studio,
and I actually want to use
AppleScript Studio to populate
our pop-up menu with all the
voices available on the system.
So in order to do that,
I need to attach some handlers to
these items and also name them so
I can refer to them in my code.
So I'm going to switch in the
Inspector from the Attributes
pane down to the AppleScript pane,
which is used for AppleScript Studio.
And I want to name my pop-up button
"Voice," hopefully for obvious reasons.
And let's name my progress
indicator "Loading."
Excellent.
Now the final thing I need
to do is attach a handler,
an AppleScript Studio handler,
which will contain the code that gets run
when my action is loaded into a workflow.
So I'm going to do that by
attaching it to the view,
which you can get by either clicking
on the background in the window
or down here in my main view.
One other thing that I'll point out here,
this AppleScript info object was
added when I started adding names
to my user interface elements.
So that stores all the
studio connections.
So the handler I want
to add is AwakeFromNib.
This handler is called when my
action is added to the workflow and
its nib is loaded from its bundle.
This is another important point.
When you're adding behavior
using Studio to your action,
you want to add it to a secondary script,
a UI script,
not the main script which holds the
runtime behavior of your action.
You want to keep them cleanly separated.
And that's what I'll show you today.
So once I've attached
that handler to my view,
I'm going to click the New button to
create a new script to associate with it.
And I'm going to create a text
script called UI.AppleScript.
And as we see,
it appears down here in my inspector,
automatically selected.
So this has bound the view of my
action to the Awake from Nib handler,
which will be tied to UI.AppleScript.
So again, let me save my Nib changes.
And before I go any further,
I have one more thing to do.
This will be shown again
in the other demos,
but we're also going to use
Cocoa bindings to actually read the
value that the user has selected in
the pop-up button and transfer it to my
script via the parameter that I added,
that chosen voice parameter.
So I select the pop-up button and
bring up the bindings inspector.
I'm going to bind to the selected value,
the actual value showing in the menu.
And I want to bind that to
my chosen voice parameter.
and it's just that easy.
So, when the user now modifies
that pop-up button,
it will save their choice
into that parameter so that
I can read it from my code.
So in order to do that,
let's switch back here.
And once you've associated
a script with a handler,
you can simply click the Edit button,
which will switch me back into Xcode and
insert a template for that handler into
my script so that I can implement it.
And this is what it looks like.
So here's my UI.apple script
with my Awake from Nib handler.
And so you don't have to watch me type,
I'm going to bring up some text
clippings to build my action.
So the first thing I want
to do is some housekeeping,
which won't be as useful as
it might be for a larger,
more complex action,
but I want to give you some good
guidelines on how to get started.
This will be increasingly useful
as you add more complicated user
interface elements in your action.
So I'm going to set up some properties
to hold references to the different
elements of my user interface.
I've attached the Awake from
NibHandler to the view of the action,
so I know that the object that's passed
into it is in fact that content view.
And then I can get its super view,
which is the overall
action view reference,
and from that get my action parameters.
AppleScript Studio allows you
to actually call Cocoa methods,
so this is actually calling the
method action on the action view
to get a reference to the action,
and then I can get its parameters.
Now let's get to more interesting code.
What we want to do is
when we load our action,
we want to start the progress
indicator so the user gets some
visual feedback and then populate our
menu with the system voices available.
And of course after we do that we
want to stop the progress indicator.
So that's what these three lines do.
We're going to start
the progress indicator,
load our menu, and then stop.
Now I know what you're thinking,
"Oh that manager,
he's forgotten he's got a handler
there he hasn't implemented."
Well let's put that in as well.
And let me walk you
quickly through this code.
This is less interesting because this
is highly specific to speak text.
This is where your application
logic or action logic would go.
But we're going to again use call method
to read from the NSSpeechSynthesizer
class the available voices,
get their names,
Clean the menu out and add a new
menu item for each voice name.
And finally,
set the current menu item to the current
choice of the user or the system default
if they haven't made a choice yet.
So that's the code we need for
our Actions user interface.
We also, I think,
need to do a little bit better with
the runtime behavior so that we
avoid some of those other problems
that we saw in my first attempt.
So again,
this is what we get out of the template.
Let's try a more sophisticated version.
So the first thing,
this first line is of great interest.
This is in fact how you read a
parameter from the parameters block.
Again, that's my chosen voice parameter
that the user will set by
interacting with the pop-up button,
and the binding will write the
value into the parameters block.
So I can set my AppleScript chosen_voice
variable to that value
and use it within my code.
So I'm going to verify that the voice is
installed and then iterate through a list
of text that may have been passed in,
speaking each one using the chosen voice.
And then again,
returning my input because
I'm not changing it.
And again, we've got that getNames,
which is just a method to get a
list of the available voice names.
So let's make sure we implement that.
Again, using the CALL method to call the
Cocoa class NSSpeechSynthesizer.
So let's see, have I forgotten anything?
No, I don't think so.
Let's build and go and see
how well I've done this time.
Hmm.
I guess this is time for a joke.
No.
I know you would have loved it.
You can imagine the funniest
joke you've ever heard.
So, you know what?
I made you listen to that already.
Let's try something a
little bit more classic.
So let's find my action.
As we can see,
it now has the right icon and
its description is filled out.
And as you can see,
this is my action because it's Xarvox!
So, you know what,
I'm not going to make you
listen to the whole thing.
So let's... I mean,
Lincoln was a great writer,
but time is limited.
Four or seven years ago our
fathers brought forth on
this continent a new nation.
I'm feeling more patriotic already.
Alright, well that's great,
but my first version worked that well.
Let's see how else it works.
Let's try no input.
Okay, well now I just fail silently.
And let's try files and folders.
Now that you can see that I'm
specifying the input correctly.
Users s119 documents demo1git
gift.txt clippe And in fact,
let's verify that some more behavior
that you may not have seen before.
Automator allows the user to
specify that they want to actually
have the user interface presented
to them when the workflow runs,
so they can make a choice at that time.
So let's say that whenever
I want some text to be read back,
I want to actually pick
my voice at the time.
So I'm going to check
show action when run.
And in that case, I get
The UI of the action
when the workflow runs,
and I can choose a different voice,
though it pains me to do so.
Users S119 documents demo
1 geek gift.txt clipping.
Wow, that's awesome.
And as you can see,
the voice has picked up the
change that I made at runtime.
So it looks like my action
is behaving correctly.
I think that I deserve a round of
applause from at least Emilie for--
Back to slides, please.
So just to sum up what you just learned,
we learned how to set action properties
and make sure that our action looks and
behaves correctly as the user interacts
with it within the Automator UI.
We learned how to add a user interface,
not a super complicated one,
but it really is the same process for
any other user interface element that
you want to select from IB's palette
and add to your actions user interface.
And then we learned how to bind the
value that the user chooses in the
interface to our code and make use of
it within our action runtime logic.
And finally,
we learned a little bit about how to
attach AppleScript Studio handlers to
make our interface a bit more dynamic,
in this particular case,
to load our pop-up menu
with the system voices.
And if you are interested in learning
more about AppleScript Studio,
again, I encourage you to attend my
hands-on session tomorrow afternoon.
And with that,
I'm very pleased to introduce
another new member of the
Automator team since last we met,
Brooke Callahan, again,
responsible for some of the
great new features in Leopard,
the Watch Me Do action.
So please welcome Brooke.
Thanks, Todd.
So, hi everybody, I'm Brooke,
and I'm going to talk to you about
writing Automator actions in Cocoa.
Good news is, not a whole lot different.
But first we've got to talk
about the Automator framework.
In the Automator framework there are
a few classes to represent actions.
There's AM action,
the abstract superclass.
AM bundle action,
this is what you would inherit from if
you were writing an action in Cocoa.
And then there's also
AM AppleScript action,
which you saw earlier,
and AM ShellScript action,
which you'll see in a little bit.
But for right now,
let's take a look at BC Speak Text,
which is the action
that I wrote in Cocoa.
So, first I'm going to show
you the action properties,
which there's very little difference
between the different action types.
And then the code itself,
which you're going to notice
there's a lot less of,
and the user interface.
So, can we switch to demo, please?
So here's my project that I created using
the Cocoa Automator Action template.
In the target inspector here,
we see there's one change
from Todd's actions,
and that's that the principal
class is BCSpeakText.
When you're writing an
Automator action using Cocoa,
you'd create your own
subclass of amBundleAction,
and any time you change the name,
you must also change the name here,
or else your action just won't work.
The other two changes are the input and
output are now com.apple Cocoa.string.
This is so that I don't have to unpack
the NSApple event descriptor myself,
and it'll just give me a string as input.
For the code itself,
I've defined two methods,
one returning an array of voices that
I can bind to in my user interface.
and another one, RunWithInput.
This is the method that you'd--
Implement yourself to define what
Automator is going to do when you run it.
It's the same thing as the on-button
handler that Todd implemented earlier.
Now in the main.nib,
there's no AppleScript info
because I'm not binding into any...
AppleScript Method Handlers.
Instead, I have this Voices Controller
Which is bound to that
voices method I showed you.
And I have the pop-up button
with its content array bound into
the voices controller and the
content values bound to the voice
name of the dictionaries in that
A Ray Controller.
And then also the same
thing that Todd had,
I had the selected value
bound to the chosen voice.
One small change here though is that
since I have yet another feature,
I have the multiple values placed,
well basically I have all these
fields filled out as system voice
and this is basically all my error
checking in case something goes wrong,
someone messes with the
workflow file in some way.
I will have a default value show
up instead of having an error.
So, with that said, let's test it.
Back to the getting spirit,
break and dress.
And so you can see it's my action now.
It has the system voice.
I didn't explain to you
what this was earlier,
but it's essentially the voice that you
set in system preferences so that any
time the system needs to talk to you.
It will use that voice.
Four score and seven years ago
our fathers brought forth on
this continent a new nation.
Okay.
So back to slides.
We saw the differences between
AppleScript and Cocoa actions that the,
really the only difference
between the InfoP-List,
the configuration of the action is the
principal class and the input and output.
And the input and output you
don't necessarily need to change
if you like unpacking Apple and
Event descriptors yourself.
The code itself,
if you're implementing in Cocoa,
can be much more terse.
You don't have to write nearly
as much and the user interface
can be completely done using
bindings if you'd like.
So now with that, I'd like to introduce,
well,
I'd like Emilie to come back up and show
you how to make your action complete.
So we just saw a lot of great demos.
First we saw Todd fix up
his action in AppleScript,
and then we saw Brooke's
great action in Cocoa.
And you can see that setting your action
properly and carefully can definitely
make your action a whole lot better.
So now that we've seen
these two great demos,
how do we make it complete?
Well, first we need to test and
debug just a little bit.
I know we all like to think
we write perfect code,
but every once in a
while there's a few bugs.
So in the demos that we saw,
Todd and Brooke were
both using build and go.
But if you're having
problems in your code,
you can also do build and debug and
use the debugger of your choice.
From Xcode 2.1 and onward,
in all the action templates,
we have a command line tool called amlin,
which is automatically run
when you build your action.
This is essentially a verification
tool which checks for errors in
both your user interface file as
well as your action properties.
So now we've cleaned up our action.
It runs.
It builds.
And we think it's fine.
It's great.
And we add it to the workflow,
and it's not doing
quite what we expected.
So to debug it once
it's in your workflow,
you can add view results actions
both before and after your action so
you can see what the input is coming
into your action as well as what your
action is returning as its output.
And I'll take this moment
to mention that in Leopard,
we have a new result,
which I implemented.
So I encourage you to come to the session
this afternoon and take a look at it.
Additionally, you can also add an Ask for
Confirmation action to your workflow
so you can pause or cancel the
execution of the workflow if you see
that something isn't going correctly.
So, we've tested our action,
we've debugged it, everything's great.
So now let's install the action.
Actions that ship with the OS live
in System Library Automator,
but your actions should live in the
appropriate Library/Automator folder.
Additionally,
if your action is part of an application,
it should live in your
Applications Bundle.
So if you've been paying attention,
you'll remember that there are
three types of Automator actions,
and we took a look at AppleScript and
we took a look at Objective-C,
but what about the last one, ShellScript?
And that's because I've
saved the best for last,
and so we're going to take a
look at ShellScript actions now.
So we're going to see a Perl action
that I've written called GeekText,
and you might be able to
guess what this will do.
So we're going to learn how the
user interface doesn't vary,
essentially,
from both AppleScript actions
and Cocoa actions,
and then we're going to take
a quick look at the code.
So switch to demo, please.
So here's the GeekText project
that I've created.
And I did this by, again,
going to the Assistant and
creating a shell script action.
And when you do so,
type in Dvorak,
so Cordy is very slow for me.
So when you first create
your shell script action,
you'll see that here you have to set what
you're going to write your action in.
So in my case, I had said it's a Perl.
But we don't really
care about this project.
Let's take a look at
the Geek Text project.
So the user interface,
we see that here I have my pop-up.
Found its selected tag to the key level.
And so that isn't any different from
the other actions that you already saw.
And then in my script file,
I have this set to Perl,
and here is where I grab the value
of the binding that I had set.
And the bindings are passed
in as environment variables,
so you just get your environment
variables as you would with the
scripting language of your choice,
and you have your bindings.
So let's take a look and see
what this action will do,
in case you haven't
figured it out already.
Keep remembering that
favorite joke of yours.
All right.
So.
Here, my action is living in Terminal
because it was a shell script action,
but of course you can change
that in the action properties.
So, here's my action.
My lead level is Noob,
and you can see I have example text
that I implemented with Studio Handlers.
And let's see what
happens when I run this.
Great.
Looks awesome.
Totally legible.
Let's change it to Leet.
Okay,
but I think I'm an uber-leet hacksaw,
so let's see it again.
Wow.
Well, but, you know, that wasn't enough,
so let's see what
happens if we speak this.
We'll use our Vox.
F0, 2, 5, 0, 23, 4, 53, 33, 34, 25, 490
Tifferifferiffer 490.
That's great.
Alright, back to slides please.
So, what did you learn?
Well,
first you learned that when you translate
the Gettysburg Address to Geek Text,
it sounds like "tifferifferiffer."
You also learned how to set the shebang,
which was setting sh to Perl,
and you learned how to
implement the action in Perl.
You also learned how to
extract the bindings,
but not only that,
you learned how to extract the bindings
with any shell scripting language,
not just Perl,
because they're just passed
in as environment variables.
So, now that we've covered
AppleScript actions,
Cocoa actions, and Shell script actions,
let's step back and take a look at
what we've learned in this session.
Well, we started out with what
Automator actions are.
We learned about the types of actions
and the parts of the actions and
how they interact with each other.
After that, we learned why actions
are extremely important.
We learned that if we
want great workflows,
we first need great actions,
and if you want to put a new face
on your application's technology,
then creating great Automator
actions is very important.
We then learned how to create
the action projects and how to
implement an AppleScript action.
After that,
we designed a little bit of the
user interface for an action,
and then we set the action properties.
We then saw how to implement
a Cocoa action and build,
test, run, and install an action, which,
as you saw, was easier done than said,
and how to implement a Perl action,
and now we know how to create
great Automator actions.
Well, to me, that looks an awful lot
like we just did a workflow.
We started out with what
Automator actions are,
and then we went all the
way through these steps,
and we ended up,
we now know how to create
great Automator actions.
So you can see how having the right
steps in your workflow is extremely
essential to creating a great workflow.
So that's why we need you to go out
and create great Automator actions.
So, for next steps,
you can of course read the documentation,
but who wants to do that?
So take a look at the example projects
also in Developer Examples Automator.
There is the advanced topics session
this afternoon at 2 in this room,
and you can also come to the lab
after that at 3:30 where the Automator
team will be more than happy to
answer all of your questions.
And after that, just write and ship great
actions for people to use.
So for related sessions,
you can attend any of
these great sessions.
And for more information,
you can contact Sal Segoian,
our Automator Product Manager.
Or if you want to learn
how to write bad actions,
you can contact Todd Fernandez,
the Automator Engineering Manager.
You can also email the Automator
Developers mailing list or go to the
developer website for more resources.